---
layout: project
title: "Targeted Sequencing"
tagline: "Collaborative Projects"
handle: mossmatters
image: /assets/images/papers/HybPiper_Infographic.jpg
category: research
---

# Targeted Sequencing

Building a phylogeny from one or a few genes is likely to be misleading about the relationships among species. A more accurate reconstruction will use many genes from the nucleus, but this is not cost-effective with traditional PCR and Sanger-sequencing based methods. Similarly, sequencing full genomes using high-throughput sequencing is not feasible for systematics in non-model organisms (yet). 

One compromise is to bias high-throughput sequencing libraries to contain a reduced representation of the genome. This technique, known as targeted sequencing, is a cost-effective way to sample hundreds of loci from dozens of samples simultaneously. There are several targeted-sequencing techniques, including Anchored Phylogenetics (aka Ultra-Conserved Elements) or RAD-cap (the capture of restriction-digest associated elements). For plant phylogenetics, HybSeq-- the targeting of exons and flanking intron regions, has proven highly effective. In our lab we focus on three aspects of HybSeq targeted sequencing: probe design, the use of herbarium specimens, and data analysis pipelines.

## Probe Design

One of the most cost-efficient ways to design probes for targeted sequencing is to use existing transcriptome data in combination with a relatively closely related genome. Homology between transcriptomes and genomes is detected using BLAST searches, or if several sources are available, using orthology searching software such as Orthofinder. 

We have collaborated with several groups working on a variety of organisms, including angiosperms, mosses, and even birds. Probes can be designed to fit a variety of taxonomic depths (from species complexes to entire phyla) can include genes that are functionally relevant in addition to phylogenetically informative genes, and can incorporate sequence divergence by using multiple source species.

In collaboration with the Plant and Fungal Tree of Life (PAFTOL) team at Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, we helped develop a probe kit that promises to reliably amplify up to 350 nuclear coding regions in any angiosperm species. You can read more about the probe design here. 

## Herbarium Specimens

The ability to reliably use dried plant material for DNA extraction is one of the most important advantages of targeted sequencing. Because the DNA is used in shotgun sequencing library preparation, degradation of DNA to small fragment sizes does not prohibit sequence recovery! In some instances, we have been able to recover 400+ nuclear genes from a 100-year-old herbarium specimen, even though PCR-based methods failed for the same DNA extraction.

This advantage opens up many new opportunities for collecting genetic data from herbarium specimens. Collections made from locations that are now difficult to access, or from threatened or extinct species can now be included in phylogenetic analysis. The technique also allows for extraction from a smaller amount of starting tissue, reducing the toll of destructive sampling.

## Data Analysis

After sequencing hundreds of genes from dozens of individuals, the challenge is to create data files ready for phylogenetics analysis from sequencing reads. We designed [HybPiper](github.com/mossmatters/HybPiper) to efficiently process reads in three stages: read sorting, contig assembly, and exon extraction. We also designed scripts for extracting intron sequences, detecting paralogous sequence, calculating efficiency statistics, and data visualization. 

Our future directions include incorporating allelic information into phylogenetic analysis, correcting errors in contig assembly, and improving the accuracy of assembly from herbarium specimens. 