---
layout: post
title: "Join"
description: "Join us"
about: true
category: misc
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

##Postdoctoral Scholar and Graduate Student Research Positions

Want to join the lab? Please get in touch!

We are looking to recruit a number of **Postdoctoral Scholars** and **Graduate Students** (anticipated intake for new graduate student applicants would be Fall 2017 onwards). Applicants should have an interest in –Omic approaches focused on microbial eukaryotes, with an emphasis on metazoan phyla. Such approaches include, but are not limited to: environmental sequencing approaches to test ecological and evolutionary hypotheses (identifying source/sink habitats in marine environments, assessing local/global biodiversity patterns and microbial responses to disturbance), comparative phylogenomics of free-living nematode clades (including host-associated microbiomes), and development of high-throughput computational workflows for microbial eukaryotes. Projects and research questions will be developed according to the applicant’s skills and interests.One funded project will specifically focus on [“Genomic Responses to the Deepwater Horizon event and development of high-throughput biological assays for oil spills"]  Lab members are expected to possess or develop an interdisciplinary skill set, including molecular biology wet lab protocols, high-throughput-sequencing, bioinformatics, and computational/statistical methods. Minimum Qualifications: Postdoctoral applicants should possess a Ph.D. in a biological or computational discipline, and demonstrate a strong publication record and ability to conduct independent research. Graduate student applicants should possess a B.S. or M.S. in a relevant field and meet all the requirements for acceptance into a [UCR graduate program]. All applicants are expected to develop strong written and verbal communication skills, as well as assist in mentoring students.Desirable Qualifications: Proficiency in a standard programming language (Python, Perl), experience in data visualization (RStudio, D3.js), experience with metagenomic datasets (assembly, binning, analysis), experience with microbial ecology rRNA datasets (QIIME, etc.), experience in phylogenomics and comparative phylogenetic methods. Previous experience with nematodes or microbial eukaryotes is advantageous, but not required.Appointment and Application: All appointments are initially for one year, and renewable based on performance. Salaries are commensurate with experience and based on internal UC payscales and minimums set by the [University of California postdoctoral union]. To apply, submit a curriculum vitae, a 1-page statement of research interests, and contact details for three academic references to holly.bik@ucr.edu. Review of applications will begin immediately, and will continue until positions are filled.


[“Genomic Responses to the Deepwater Horizon event and development of high-throughput biological assays for oil spills"]: http://research.gulfresearchinitiative.org/research-awards/projects/?pid=272
[UCR graduate program]: http://graduate.ucr.edu/grad_programs.html
[University of California postdoctoral union]: http://uaw5810.org/

