---
layout: post
title: "Join Our Lab!"
description: "Join us"
about: true
category: misc
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<a name="purpose"></a>

The Johnson Lab is accepting applicants at all levels! Our lab is broadly interested in plant phylogenomics-- using the phylogeny to ask questions about the evolution of plant genomes. We are interested in any group of plants, but we often work with bryophytes. As a result of often working on non-model organisms, we are frequently adapting existing bioinformatics tools to work more efficiently for non-model organisms. 

Prospective scholars at all levels should check out our [Publications](/papers) and [Projects](/projects) pages to get an idea of the current research going on in the lab. Applicants of diverse backgrounds are particularly encouraged to apply.

## Undergraduate students

The Johnson Lab is accepting undergraduate students interested in any of our  research projects. Students interested in plant systematics may be interested in work study opportunities in the E.L. Reed Herbarium. We are particularly interested in how to process "big data" in the context of evolutionary biology, including the efficient processing of high-throughput DNA sequence data and novel methods for data visualization. **No prior coding experience is necessary!**


## Graduate students

The lab is currently accepting graduate students for both the Masters and Doctoral track. Students interested in the interface between plant evolution and genomics or the development of new bioinformatics methods for phylogenomics, are encouraged to apply.  More information about applying to grad school at Texas Tech can be found on the [TTU Biology Website](http://www.depts.ttu.edu/biology/Graduate/graduatestudies.php).

## Postdoctoral fellows

We are currently in search of a post-doctoral research associate to continue development of targeted sequencing approaches in plant phylogenomics. Successful candidates will be responsible for conducting molecular biology experiments and developing an open-source code base for efficient processing of high-throughput sequence data for phylogenetics. 

We are also willing to sponsor potential post-doctoral fellows through programs such as the [National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellows in Biology](https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=503622&org=NSF), the [Ford Foundation](http://sites.nationalacademies.org/pga/fordfellowships/pga_047960) or the [L'Oreal Women in Science](http://www.lorealusa.com/csr-commitments/the-l%E2%80%99or%C3%A9al-corporate-foundation/science/l%E2%80%99or%C3%A9al-usa-for-women-in-science-program) fellowship programs. For additional funding sources, see our Funding page. 

Prospective post-docs should send a cover letter that includes the names and contacts for three references and a short statement of research interests, along with a current CV to matt.johnson<span style="display:none">obfuscate</span>@ttu.edu

## Equal Opportunity Employment

Texas Tech University does not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, status as a protected veteran, or any other legally protected category, class, or
characteristic. While sexual orientation and gender identity are not explicitly protected
categories under state or federal law, it is the university’s policy not to discriminate in
employment, admission, or use of programs, activities, facilities, or services on these
bases. Employment actions such as hiring, promotion, demotion, transfer, rate of pay, or
other forms of compensation, selection for training, and termination shall not be made
based on an employee’s protected status. Discriminatory behavior is prohibited regardless
of the manner in which it is exhibited, whether verbally, in writing, or electronically
displayed or conveyed.



