---
layout: post
title: "Join Our Lab!"
description: "Join us"
join: true
category:
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Opportunties to Join the Johnson Lab

<a name="purpose"></a>

**Despite the URL, we are interested in phylogenomics of all plants, not only mosses!**

The Johnson Lab is accepting applicants at all levels! Our lab is broadly interested in plant phylogenomics-- using the phylogeny to ask questions about the evolution of plant genomes. We are interested in any group of plants, but we often work with bryophytes. As a result of often working on non-model organisms, we are frequently adapting existing bioinformatics tools to work more efficiently for non-model organisms. 

Prospective scholars at all levels should check out our [Publications](/papers) and [Projects](/projects) pages to get an idea of the current research going on in the lab. Applicants of diverse backgrounds are particularly encouraged to apply, including women and members of underrepresented minority groups. Texas Tech [recently received designation as a Hispanic Serving Institution](http://today.ttu.edu/posts/2017/09/hispanic-serving-institution), and we welcome young Hispanic scholars at all levels!

All members of the Johnson Lab are expected to follow the [Code of Conduct]({% post_url protocols/2018-08-01-JohnsonLabCodeofConduct %}) and should review the [Lab Expectations]({% post_url protocols/2021-08-09-Setting-Expectations %}) document.

## Undergraduate students

The Johnson Lab is accepting undergraduate students interested in any of our research projects. Student projects generally fall into three areas:
 
* Working with specimens in the [E.L. Reed Herbarium](/herbarium).
* Laboratory projects (DNA extraction, PCR, electrophoresis).
* Bioinformatics projects (working with high-throughput DNA sequencing data).

Within each of these project areas, students can get involved in several ways:

* Work-study opportunities
* Research credits (BIOL4100 and BIOL4300)
* [TTU Honors Undergraduate Research Scholars](http://www.depts.ttu.edu/honors/academicsandenrichment/urs/)

We typically ask for at least two-semester commitment from undergraduates, because training and background reading will often take most of the first semester.

### Research Credits

Biology majors at Texas Tech may count 6 research credits towards their biology major as elective courses. I can also support students in other majors, by making agreements with professors in the home department. You should work with your academic advisor to ensure that research credits will not "overload" your course load and will fit within your degree plan.

For BIOL4100, students are expected to participate in data collection activities for an average of 2-3 hours per week. Activities may include preparation of herbarium specimens, digitization of collections, and participation in Herbarium group events (lab meetings, outreach events, etc).

For BIOL4300, students are expected to conduct an independent project that typically spans two semesters. In each semester, students prepare a "final product." Previous final products have included research papers, detailed protocols, poster presentations, data visualizations, and computer programs. Projects will usually take 8-10 hours per week on average, though it is flexible week-to-week.

### Volunteering

I typically do not accept volunteers in the lab, for several reasons: there is liability associated with students working in the lab that is more formally covered by directed course research or work study opportunities. There is also more accountability (in both directions) for course credit and student assistant positions, which helps ensure that a project is finished efficiently. Finally, not all students can afford to volunteer in a lab, and this creates an inequity problem.


Interested students should contact me (matt.johnson<span style="display:none">obfuscate</span>@ttu.edu) for further questions.


## Graduate students

The lab is currently accepting graduate students for both the Masters and Doctoral track. Students interested in the interface between plant evolution and genomics or the development of new bioinformatics methods for phylogenomics, are encouraged to apply. 

Students interested in applying should review the "[Potential Graduate Student Projects]({% post_url projects/2022-05-01-PotentialGraduateProjects %})" page, and fill out the [Prospective Student](https://forms.gle/H2c4uY4qF3a9sfnYA) form. Typically students will apply October - December to begin their graduate program the following fall. We do not typically accept students who wish to begin in the spring semester.

More information about applying to grad school at Texas Tech can be found on the [TTU Biology Website](http://www.depts.ttu.edu/biology/Graduate/graduatestudies.php). The Department of Biological Sciences supports graduate students through Teaching Assistant positions (TAs) during the fall and spring semesters. These TA positions are guaranteed for Master's students for 3 years and for Doctoral students for 5 years. Additional funding, including summer TA and RA support, is contingent upon availability of external grants.

Graduate students are encouraged to apply before December 1 to be eligible for several internal fellowships to supplement the TA stipend. I am also happy to discuss sponsoring [Graduate Research Fellowship Program students](https://www.nsfgrfp.org/) or [Ford Fellowship applicants](https://sites.nationalacademies.org/PGA/FordFellowships/index.htm).

## Postdoctoral fellows

We are willing to sponsor potential post-doctoral fellows through programs such as the [National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellows in Biology](https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=503622&org=NSF), the [Ford Foundation](http://sites.nationalacademies.org/pga/fordfellowships/pga_047960) or the [L'Oreal Women in Science](http://www.lorealusa.com/csr-commitments/the-l%E2%80%99or%C3%A9al-corporate-foundation/science/l%E2%80%99or%C3%A9al-usa-for-women-in-science-program) fellowship programs. 

Prospective post-docs should send a cover letter that includes the names and contacts for three references and a short statement of research interests, along with a current CV to matt.johnson<span style="display:none">obfuscate</span>@ttu.edu

## Equal Opportunity Employment

Texas Tech University does not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, status as a protected veteran, or any other legally protected category, class, or
characteristic. While sexual orientation and gender identity are not explicitly protected
categories under state or federal law, it is the university’s policy not to discriminate in
employment, admission, or use of programs, activities, facilities, or services on these
bases. Employment actions such as hiring, promotion, demotion, transfer, rate of pay, or
other forms of compensation, selection for training, and termination shall not be made
based on an employee’s protected status. Discriminatory behavior is prohibited regardless
of the manner in which it is exhibited, whether verbally, in writing, or electronically
displayed or conveyed.



